docs: Clean up documentation for v8 (#1788)
Workday/canvas-kit: modules/docs/mdx/8.0-UPGRADE-GUIDE.mdx

# Canvas Kit 8.0 Upgrade Guide

This guide contains an overview of the changes in Canvas Kit v8. Please
[reach out](https://github.com/Workday/canvas-kit/issues/new?labels=bug&template=bug.md) if you have
any questions.

- [Codemod](#codemod)
- [General Updates](#general-updates)
  - [IE11 No Longer Supported](#ie11-no-longer-supported)

>   - [Removal of Default Exports](#removal-of-default-exports)

Author: We may want to include a section on the upgrade to React 18 under `General Updates` even though we still support React 16.14 and 17.X in v8. Thoughts?

Author: I think a link to the discussion would be great. I'll leave a placeholder `React 18 Upgrade` section with a reminder to fill the section in a follow-up PR.

  - [Responsive Styles](#responsive-styles)
  - [Refactor Style Props](#refactor-style-props)
  - [Testing](#testing)
- [New Components](#new-components)
  - [Grid](#grid)
  - [Text](#text)
  - [Status Indicator (Preview)](#status-indicator-preview)
- [Component Deprecations](#component-deprecations)
  - [Drawer](#drawer)
  - [Menu (Preview)](#menu-preview)
  - [Layout and Column](#layout-and-column)
- [Component Updates](#component-updates)
  - [Box](#box)
  - [Breadcrumbs](#breadcrumbs)
  - [Menu (Main)](#menu-main)
  - [Modal](#modal)

>   - [Segmented Control](#segmented-control)

Author: This should be moved to the `New Components` since it's a net-new component being added to Preview (not affecting the Segmented Control currently in Main).

## Codemod

Please use our [codemod package](https://github.com/Workday/canvas-kit/tree/master/modules/codemod)

> to automatically update your code to work with many of the breaking changes in v8.

Reviewer: should we leave out `many` ? maybe just say `with the breaking changes introduced in v8? Makes it seems like v8 is an odd number release. Thoughts?

Author: I've changed `many` to `most` to minimize the possibility that someone would interpret v8 as having many breaking changes.

```sh
> npx @workday/canvas-kit-codemod v8 [path]
```

Alternatively, if you're unable to run the codemod successfully using `npx`, you can install the
codemod package as a dev dependency, run it with `yarn`, and then remove the package after you're
finished.

```sh
> yarn add @workday/canvas-kit-codemod --dev
> yarn canvas-kit-codemod v8 [path]
> yarn remove @workday/canvas-kit-codemod

> ```

Author: I added alternate instructions on how to run the codemod if `npx` isn't working out. Personally, I've never been able to get the codemod to run using `npx`.

Reviewer: YAS

> The codemod only works on `.js`, `.jsx`, `.ts`, and `.tsx` files. You'll need to manually edit

> > other types of files (`.json`, `.mdx`, `.md`, etc.). You may need to run your linter after

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> other file types (`.json`, `.mdx`, `.md`, etc.). You may need to run your linter after
```

> executing the codemod, as its resulting formatting (spacing, quotes, etc.) may not match your
> project conventions.

The codemod will handle _many_ but _not all_ of the breaking changes in v8. **Breaking changes
handled by the codemod are marked with 🤖 in the Upgrade Guide.**

**Please verify all changes made by the codemod.** As a safety precaution, we recommend committing
the changes from the codemod as a single isolated commit (separate from other changes) so you can
roll back more easily if necessary.

## General Updates

### IE11 No Longer Supported

Starting with v8, Canvas Kit will no longer support IE11.

We've removed all IE11-specific code including polyfills. Applications built using Canvas Kit v8 and

> above may no longer run in IE11 and may fail to bootstrap with an error and/or a white screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
above will no longer run in IE11 and will fail to bootstrap with an error and/or a white screen.
```

Reviewer: Be definitive here so that there's no doubt that it will fail

**Do not upgrade to v8 if your application needs to support IE11.**

---

### Removal of Default Exports

We've removed all remaining default exports from our packages to maintain consistency with our newer

> (and recently updated) components and systems which favor named exports. The following components

Author: The list of components below which have had their default exports removed may not be exhaustive. There were a few items that were missing when this list was compiled in the original PR (#1634) -- we need to compare against the changes in the PR to verify this list is complete.

Author: Handle this in a follow-up PR.

- fonts

🤖 The codemod will rewrite your default imports to named imports.

---

### Responsive Styles

> Coming Soon (https://github.com/Workday/canvas-kit/pull/1779)

---

### Refactor Style Props

> Coming Soon (https://github.com/Workday/canvas-kit/pull/1783)

---

### Testing

> Coming Soon (https://github.com/Workday/canvas-kit/pull/1800)

## New Components

### Grid

We've introduced a new `Grid` component to the Main package. `Grid` is a low-level layout component
that provides a common, ergonomic API for building two-dimensional layouts (rows and columns) with
[CSS Grid](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/CSS_layout/Grids).

For more information, view the `Grid` component [docs](/components/layout/grid/).

---

### Text

We've introduced a group of Text components to the Main package: `Text`, `LabelText`, `Title`,
`Heading`, `BodyText`, and `Subtext`. Together they provide a common, ergonomic API for rendering
text with built-in support for our Canvas Kit type tokens.

For more information, view the Text component [docs](/components/text/).

---

### Status Indicator (Preview)

> Coming Soon (https://github.com/Workday/canvas-kit/issues/1637)

> ## Component Deprecations

Author: Note that I devoted an H2 for `## Component Deprecations` but not for Component Promotions. Promotions are instead highlighted under the respective component H3 under `## Component Updates` below. I felt that component deprecations warranted an extra call-out so I gave them their own H2 section. Component promotions felt like they worked within the context of `Component Updates`.

Let me know if you think differently.

- Tooltip

#### Labs (canvas-kit-labs-react)

- Combobox
- Drawer

#### Preview (canvas-kit-preview-react)

- ColorPicker
- Menu
- Select
- SidePanel

#### Fonts (canvas-kit-react-fonts)

- fonts

🤖 The codemod will rewrite your default imports to named imports.

---

### Responsive Styles

> Coming Soon (https://github.com/Workday/canvas-kit/pull/1779)

---

### Refactor Style Props

> Coming Soon (https://github.com/Workday/canvas-kit/pull/1783)

---

### Testing

> Coming Soon (https://github.com/Workday/canvas-kit/pull/1800)

## New Components

### Grid

We've introduced a new `Grid` component to the Main package. `Grid` is a low-level layout component
that provides a common, ergonomic API for building two-dimensional layouts (rows and columns) with
[CSS Grid](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/CSS_layout/Grids).

For more information, view the `Grid` component [docs](/components/layout/grid/).

---

### Text

We've introduced a group of Text components to the Main package: `Text`, `LabelText`, `Title`,
`Heading`, `BodyText`, and `Subtext`. Together they provide a common, ergonomic API for rendering
text with built-in support for our Canvas Kit type tokens.

> For more information, view the Text component [docs](/components/text/).

Author: Consider adding an example using Type Level components. For example:

```
// v7
<p css={{...type.levels.subtext.small}}>Small Subtext Text</p>

// v8
<Subtext size="small">Small Subtext Text</Subtext>
```

### Responsive Styles

> (PLACEHOLDER) Responsive styles go here (https://github.com/Workday/canvas-kit/issues/1503)

## New Components

### Grid

> (PLACEHOLDER) Introduction to Grid plus link to Grid docs goes here.

### Text

> (PLACEHOLDER) Introduction to Text plus link to Text docs goes here.

## Component Deprecations

### Deprecation Types

There are two types of deprecations: soft and hard.

#### Soft Deprecation

A soft-deprecated component is still available with its full functionality, but it will have been
renamed with a prefix to indicate its soft-deprecated status. It will also include a console warning
announcing its deprecation. This warning will only be triggered on the component's initial render.

Soft-deprecated types and utilities will also be renamed but generally will not trigger a console
warning.

#### Hard Deprecation

A hard-deprecated component or package is no longer available. You will need to follow the method
prescribed in our upgrade guide to update your application. Please
[reach out](https://github.com/Workday/canvas-kit/issues/new?labels=bug&template=bug.md) to our team
directly if you need additional help.

> > (PLACEHOLDER) Soft deprecation of Drawer, Menu (Preview), Layout and Column goes here. (https://github.com/Workday/canvas-kit/pull/1747)

Reviewer: Hey James, what are your thoughts on guiding consumers to use our main package components if were' soft deprecating? Example, menu in preview is being deprecated, should we guide them to use the main package one?

Author: Yes, that is a great idea -- we should definitely guide consumers towards using the Menu in Main 👍

};
```

🤖 The codemod will rename `Menu`, `MenuProps`, `MenuState`, `MenuItem` and `MenuItemProps` to their
deprecated names.

You may continue to use this component, but please note that we plan to
[hard-deprecate](#hard-deprecation) it in v9. Consider using the [Menu](/components/popups/menu/) in

> the Main package instead.

Author: Note that `/components/popups/menu/` will link to docs for the **Preview** Menu when the v8 Upgrade Guide is viewed on the Canvas Site (unless we update the site to import the Main Menu MDX instead of the Preview Menu MDX). This link will work fine when viewing the v8 Upgrade Guide within Storybook.

Author: We'll update the site to import the Main Menu MDX instead of the Preview Menu MDX.

---

### Layout and Column

We've [soft-deprecated](#soft-deprecation) `Layout` and `Column` and renamed the following items:

- `Layout` to `DeprecatedLayout`
- `LayoutProps` to `DeprecatedLayoutProps`
- `Column` to `DeprecatedColumn`
- `ColumnProps` to `DeprecatedColumnProps`

```tsx
// v7

> import {Layout, Column} from '@workday/canvas-kit-react/layout';

Author: Should we use `Column` instead of `Layout.Column` in the code snippets here? I understand both work, but it may make more sense to use `Column` within the context of the deprecations we're showing here (i.e., `Column` to `DeprecatedColumn`).

Author: Handle this in a follow-up PR.

<Box fontFamily="monospace" fontSize={16} fontWeight="medium" />
```

---

### Breadcrumbs

`Breadcrumbs` has been promoted to the Main package. It now uses the list system from our
[Collection API](/getting-started/for-developers/resources/collection-api/) which provides new

> overflow behavior based on container width.

Author: @alanbsmith @RayRedGoose I could use extra eyes on the Breadcrumbs section here in the Upgrade Guide. I fixed a couple errors and did a fair amount of wordsmithing here -- let me know if I made any mistakes or altered the intent of what you wanted to communicate.

</Breadcrumbs>
```

Additionally, there are a handful of changes to the `Breadcrumbs` API which will require manual
updates on your part:

- Changes to Redirects
- Updated Overflow Behavior

We've outlined these changes in more detail below.

#### Changes to Redirects

> We've removed `onAction` from `Breadcrumbs.Link`. `Breadcrumbs.Link` now defaults to redirecting

Author: The [original sentence](https://github.com/Workday/canvas-kit/blame/prerelease/major/modules/docs/mdx/8.0-UPGRADE-GUIDE.mdx#L316) here references removing `onAction` from `Breadcrumbs.Item`, but I believe it's supposed to be `Breadcrumbs.Link`.

Reviewer 2: The `onAction` prop was on `Breadcrumbs.Link` and `Breadcrumbs.Item`. It will be removed from both.

);
```

> Read more about [moving from Router DOM v5 to v6](https://reactrouter.com/en/main/upgrading/v5).

Author: This felt a little out of scope for the Upgrade Guide, but I could be convinced otherwise. I've left it in for now.

Reviewer 2: Yeah, we could remove "Read more about [moving from Router DOM v5 to v6](https://reactrouter.com/en/main/upgrading/v5)."

  );
};
```

---

### Menu (Main)

We've updated the depth value of `Menu.Card` from `1` to `3`. This is a visually breaking change.

---

### Modal

We've updated the `Modal` component to include new touch and responsive behaviors. The responsive

> `Modal` will be displayed when users are browsing on screen sizes between `320px` and `768px` and

Author: @mannycarrera4 Would love to get your thoughts on the Modal section. It wasn't included in the Upgrade Guide so I cobbled together this content based on the PR descriptions and code changes in #1700 and #1815. Let me know if I got anything wrong.

will have the following visual differences compared to the standard `Modal`:

> - Padding between the edge of `Modal.Card` and its contents reduced to `16px` (standard: `32px`)

Author: I think the padding for the responsive `Modal` is supposed to be `16px` (that's what it is in the [code](https://github.com/Workday/canvas-kit/blob/prerelease/major/modules/react/modal/lib/ModalCard.tsx#L21)), but #1815 says it's supposed to be `24px` in the PR description:

![Screen Shot 2022-10-04 at 6 07 20 PM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/146020/193957790-0646b7e2-a14a-4e14-b269-b945cb27bff2.png)

Author: Assuming `16px` is correct since that's what's being used in the code.
